Chariot of Benefit and Happiness: A Song That Summarizes the Content of All the Authoritative Treatises, Essential Instructions, and Pith Instructions of Jowo Atiśa's Kadam Tradition Lion of the Śākyas, supreme teacher of the three classes of disciples; Ajita and Mañjughoṣa, his foremost bodhisattva heirs; Nāgārjuna and Asaṅga, the world's great charioteers; Tilopa and Nāropa, crown ornaments of a million siddhas; Jowo Atiśa, embodiment of their traditions-profound view, vast conduct, and practice-and of their blessings, Along with your disciples and lineage holders, Remembering your exemplary lives from deep within my heart, I offer this supplication. Bless me with your compassion, O Kadam masters! Bless me that I may have the fortune to correctly hear and teach The graded path to enlightenment with its four great aspects, The heart practice of the One Divine Lord, who perfected the activities of scripture and realization, To accomplish the welfare of myself and others. Bless me that, having understood that a fully qualified spiritual mentor of the Supreme Vehicle Is an ocean-like source of every goodness there is, I may follow him properly in thought and deed So that the root of my path becomes firmly established. Bless me that, having reflected on my freedoms and advantages, So hard to find and easy to lose, and on the sufferings of the lower realms, I may rely on the threefold refuge and strive to act according to the ethics of karma, The common path for people with lesser motivation, who strive to attain the higher realms. Bless me that, having contemplated the truth of the origin of all the suffering In saṃsāra's three planes-karma and afflictions-and the truth of their cessation, I may tread the path of the three trainings, The common path for people with medium motivation, who strive to attain liberation. Bless me that, by recognizing all beings as my mothers, remembering their kindness, benefitting them, And by putting into practice immeasurable love, compassion, and the pure intention, I may become accomplished in twofold bodhicitta, The extraordinary path for people with superior motivation, who strive to attain omniscience. Bless me that your authoritative treatises dawn as instructions: The Jātakamālā and Udānavarga, which teach the ground, faith in the Triple Gem and karma; The Śikṣāsamuccaya and Bodhicaryāvatāra, which teach the excellent path, bringing benefit and happiness to oneself and others; The Bodhisattvabhūmi and Mahāyānasūtrālaṃkāra, which teach the result, the concentration that unites śamatha and vipaśyanā. Bless me that I may integrate your essential instructions: Training in the preliminaries, the basis, and the main practice, bodhicitta; Taking adverse conditions onto the path and bringing one's entire life into the practice To reach perfection in mind training with its precepts and commitments. Bless me that your pith instructions become effective: Remembering the lama, source of refuge, is the fertile ground for experience and realization; Meditating on the yoga of deity and mantra is the skillful means of the Great Secret; The union of compassion and emptiness is the main path of the Supreme Vehicle. In short, O Kadam masters, your body maṇḍala is ornamented with the perfect accomplishment of the four deities; Your speech is adorned with the Tripiṭaka's excellent teachings, the medium of expression; And your mind is beautified by the pure three trainings, the object of expression- I pray that I may emulate your exemplary lives! This was composed by the carefree yogi Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, who has a deep admiration for the exemplary lives of the masters of the precious Kadam tradition and has extensively studied their scriptural system. It came to his mind spontaneously when he arrived at Radreng in the North, the Conqueror's Hermitage. Remembering also the words of the one bearing the name Jñāna, a monk and spiritual mentor at Gyume, who had asked him earlier to write something of this kind, he offered this supplication with single-minded devotion. May it bring virtue and excellence! 
